Wildbill’s Lennus-II Spoiler Hints and Tips:
HYPERLINK "http://www.magic-destiny.com/" http://www.magic-destiny.com/

Three Amazing Mercenary Ladies - Myra, Iris, and Nikita
Upon landing in Eltz, the hero will likely prefer to recruit more powerful allies to replace the loyal, but somewhat limited Terrans who helped him clear Andel.  I contemplated drafting a comprehensive mercenary guide for serious Lennus-II gamers, but these tips will have to suffice for now.  Although players should recruit each mercenary they encounter, give him or her a fair tryout, and draw their own conclusions, I want to discuss three of my early favorites who are certainly capable of taking this saga to the house!

Myra Seeking Vengeance
1.  Myra, a firebrand who is waiting to meet the hero in the Dank tavern, will join the party for 500 Gold in outfitting costs, and remain a staunch ally through the Gilray Zork battle in Cameron’s Big Crack.  Later in the game, at a seaport beyond the vast Nigel complex, Myra will offer to rejoin the roster for no additional bounty, and will remain loyal for duty until the end.

The Quasi-side Quest of Recruiting Iris Early
1.  Iris, one of the most powerful spell casters in the game, is available in Nigel’s Gloucester District, accessible only after the hero obtains a Green Card that the guard at the Slums border will accept.  Once the hero arrives in Gloucester, he will find Iris lounging in a sleazy third precinct clip joint.
2.  Despite Iris’s dubious moral character, she possesses diverse offensive Spirit powers, but to recruit her, the hero must acquire four expensive gifts, plus bankroll two 1000 Gold cover charges in the tavern where she hangs out.  One of these cover charges may be avoided, however, if the hero possesses all four gifts prior to entering Iris’s haunt for the first time.
3.  Here are some tactics for recruiting Iris early in the Eltz segment: Prior to the second encounter with Efrem, save your game before fighting her in the Temple of Purification.  If Efrem drops her Lovely Shoes following the battle, return to Dank, hire Myra (so you may start training her), save as much of your gold as possible (just buy essentials for survival), and depart for Nigel’s Slums.  If Efrem does not yield a chest containing her Lovely Shoes, reset the game and fight her as many times as necessary until you win that pair of Lovely Shoes.
4.  Clear Nigel’s Slums and obtain a forged Green Card from Preyzus, then proceed through the passage into Gloucester.  You now have two means of obtaining Iris’s gifts more quickly than by paying for them with gold earned while fighting monsters in the overworld and/or speculating in precious metal “Angels” at Gloucester’s investment bank. 

 5.  One method involves removing a restaurant’s trash bags, stumbling onto a chest full of Gold, and buying some of Iris’s gifts using this windfall.  However, if you are willing to gamble on your knowledge of Lennus-II, some or perhaps even all of the remaining gifts may be won in Gloucester’s underground quiz show.

 Disposing of Trash at the Overpriced Restaurant

(1)  Dine at the fancy Hotel Riverside restaurant in Gloucester’s second precinct, an establishment that charges the exorbitant tab of 10,000 Gold for a chef’s special.  After you finish eating, refuse to pay and you will be escorted to a room with falling trash bags so you may work off the debt.  After disposing of the requisite number of bags, depart through the door.  On your way out via the back corridor you will stumble onto a treasure chest.  Open the chest and pocket the 14,000 Gold inside, and this will enable you to purchase at least two of the gifts Iris is demanding.

Lovely Shoes:  Dropped by Efrem
Dream Dress:  9375 Gold (Gloucester’s Boutique Armor Shop)
Showy Tiara:  3000 Gold (Gloucester’s Boutique Armor Shop)
Light Ring:  8000 Gold (Gloucester’s “Jewelry” Weapon Shop) 
	
(2)  If you have been frugal, relying mostly on equipment and supplies you discover in chests, win in battles, and strip from fired mercenaries, you may have sufficient funds to meet Iris’s demands, but don’t forget the 1000 Gold cover charge.  The man outside Iris’s bar will offer entry for 100 Gold, but as soon as you walk through the door, a greedy woman sitting at the same table as Iris will jump up and fleece you for an additional 900 Gold!

(3)  One way to save gold is to recruit Cheche, a turtle-looking fellow who is hanging out in one of Gloucester’s many taverns.  Cheche will haggle with shop owners for discounts but may be more trouble than he is worth, because all he will save you is 2000 Gold on the Light Ring and nothing at all on the Dream Dress or the Showy Tiara.  With Cheche paying you 500 Gold to join, recruiting him puts you 2500 Gold ahead, but once he has served his purpose (gaining you a 25% discount on some items), you will have difficulty getting rid of him.

 Using the Amity Card to Compete in the Quiz Shows

(1)  This may be the hard way to obtain Iris’s gifts, especially if you are playing Lennus-II for the first time, because the difficult questions during the advanced segments of the competition will include topics that the hero has not encountered in the game.  Also, all four quiz show segments will cost entrance fees ranging from 1000 to 2000 Gold, reaching a total of 5000 Gold.

 (2)  Additionally, the Amity Card will cost 1000 Gold, bringing the grand total to 6000 Gold.  Still, if you are successful in the Medium, Hard, and Bonus rounds, this is much cheaper than the 20,375 Gold it would cost to purchase all three remaining gifts!  To save 1000 Gold, bypass the Easy round, because the Triple Arrow prize will not help you recruit ditsy Iris.

(3)  Don’t forget, if you lose a round in the quiz show, the entrance fee will be forfeited, but this penalty may be avoided by resetting the game.  To secure an Amity Card, locate the bar with a several people who want to fight.  Each time you beat one of the drunks, if you speak to the bartender between bouts, he will mention the quiz show.  After you defeat all three combatants, the bartender will sell you an Amity Card for 1000 Gold.

(4)  The quiz show method of obtaining gifts for Iris may be more practical for people who have played the game previously, but once the hero recruits Iris by any means, as the game progresses, he will find it increasingly difficult to fire her permanently.  Early in the Eltz segments of the game, especially, depending on the vulnerabilities of the monsters encountered, Iris’s varied Spirit attacks against whole enemy groups will make some battles a snap.


 Taking Nikita away from All of This…

1.  Your momma may have told you to steer clear of strip joints, but exotic dancer, Nikita, even without attack magic powers, may arguably be the strongest combatant in the game, especially when equipped with the Fist of Rage, found during the final battles at the Throne of the Immortals.  Nikita may be recruited almost immediately upon departing the Slums, once you obtain Preyzus’s Green Card and enter Gloucester via the border tunnel.  The hero will find Nikita in the dressing room of Nigel’s only strip joint, on the far left side of the back wall.

 2.  To penetrate the strip joint and reach the room where Nikita is waiting, the hero must purchase a Pretty Bouquet from the lady standing near the bouncer just outside of the establishment, atop the highest hill in Gloucester’s fourth precinct, all the way to the left.  The bouncer will charge the group 1000 Gold to enter the premises.  Once inside, turn left in the lobby, then walk north and speak to the guard blocking the dressing room entrance.  If you are carrying the Pretty Bouquet, he will allow you to proceed through the door.

3.  Once you are inside the dressing room, Nikita will not accept the flowers, but will join your party for no bounty, probably the best mercenary bargain in Lennus-II.  If you wish to rid yourself of the no-longer-needed flowers, give them to the conceited floozy on the far right side of the room.  In the field, Nikita will develop at about the same pace as any other decent fighter, but if you equip her with the best weapons, such as the Hell Whip, she will become more and more dominant in battle, and eventually become almost indispensable.

A Sexual Encounter Side Quest in Eltz

1.  On the third floor of the Hotel Riverside in Gloucester’s second precinct, also the site of the restaurant that serves 10,000 Gold meals, the hero will meet a woman in a private room on the third floor who will offer to help him “even more” in exchange for a Green Card.
2.  Since the party is not allowed to transfer the workable forged Green Card from Preyzuz, the hero will need to obtain another bogus card from the man standing to the right of Jubal’s house in the Slums.  Fake or otherwise, this will cost a tidy sum nonetheless, 5000 Gold, even with haggling.  So, when you have some gold to spare, give the fake Green Card to the woman on the third floor of the Hotel Riverside and see what happens!

A Plea for Help Regarding the Eudenus Side Quest
I adore the ladies of Lennus-II, meeting them here and yon, and especially, enjoying the opportunity to travel and fight alongside so many!
If anyone discovers the correct woman to speak to Eudenus, (one of the Nigel - Hammond Hill side quests), a prospective bride who pleases Eudenus so much that he grants the hero access to his treasure room, contact us at magic-destiny.
I will not spoil the Eudenus side quest further by outlining four possible scenarios that are either suggested by the raw script or I have actually encountered.  All I know is that I have not been willing to part with Myra, Iris, or Nikita, because those three ladies are more precious to me than whatever Eudenus is hoarding inside his treasure room!
At any rate, none of the “expendable” females I introduced to Eudenus previously ever returned to my battle roster, Melina and Jenka!
-Wildbill (September 28, 2008) 
