*Moryo Senki Madara*
   *Mini  Manual*

1) Brief History
2) Character Classes
3) Combat Explanation
4) Item descriptions
5) Spiritual Techniques
6) Tips for Beginners

(1) A Brief History
-------------------
Thousands of years ago there existed the thriving technological civilization
of Agartha, and although it no longer exists, evidence of its presence can be
seen in the many strange ruins and artifacts that litter the Fuduraku
continent. Nobody is entirely sure what happened to cause the fall of the
once-great society; all explanations have long since been lost to the mists
of time. There still exist a few scattered Agarthan families, however.

One such scion is the aged elder of Niso Forest, an inishe by the name of
Tatara. That he is old is obvious, but he has been around for as long as any
can remember, and nobody is quite sure precisely how ancient he is.

One evening, fifteen years ago, Tatara spotted something strange floating
down the river from far-away Mount Shumi. This deformed object, once it
drifted closer, appeared to be a human child, although it had been horribly
maimed - its arms and legs had been cut off, its eyes and ears were missing,
its throat had been torn open and its heart was missing. Tatara mercifully
saved the babe, and fashioned mechanical prosthetics which the child could
control using its powerful spiritual aura, or chakra. He named the baby
Madara, and raised it alongside his granddaughter, Kirin.

In the meantime, darkness was spilling from the peak of Mount Shumi. Armies
of demons called Moki descended from Shumi's slopes in waves, ransacking
villages and subverting humans where-ever they went. At first, they only
sacked the outlying villages, but soon the armies of the Emperor, Miroku,
began to grow ever more bold. Even Niso Forest, a free Hijuran town,
eventually fell under the eye of the Moki...

(2) Character Classes
---------------------
Characters in your party will be one of three classes. You can view their
class on their Status screen.

*Fighter*
Fighters are strong. They are able to equip most weapons and armor, granting
them high offense and defense, and will be the front lines of your fighting
force during combat situations. They can use "Chants" which will cause damage
to distant enemies, but are unable to use Spirit techniques or Shaman spells.

*Shaman*
Shamen are generally weak offensively and defensively, and are best kept to
the back rows. They can equip drastically less than fighters in general, and
favor the bow for their weapon of choice. Shamen cannot use Chants or Spirit
techniques, but instead favor Shaman spells, which can inflict a variety of
conditions and increasing levels of damage to foes.

*Inishe*
Inishe are the descendents of Agartha of old. They are stronger than Shamen
and will often take the front lines of combat with fighters, but you will
find that your Inishe cannot use some of the more powerful equipment that
you'll find later in the game. Like fighters, Inishe can use Chants. They are
also able to use Spirit techniques, many of which serve to bolster your
offenses or defenses.

(3) Combat Explanation
----------------------

Combat proceeds, for the most part, on its own. Characters will act
autonomously without player input, unless specifically instructed to do
otherwise. At any point, you may press the A button to give orders to your
characters, or change their general tactics.

An explanation of the combat menu is as follows:

Fight  - A persistent tactic. A "fight" command causes a character to actively
         seek and attack enemies until the end of the battle or issued other
         orders. In the right-hand party status pane, it is symbolized by a
         dagger icon.
Stop   - A persistent tactic. Causes the character to stand still, attacking
         when an enemy gets in range. In the right-hand party status pane, it
         is symbolized by an X icon.
Defend - A persistent tactic. Causes the character to stand still or flee,
         and increases defense. In the right-hand party status pane, it is
         symbolized by a shield icon.
Run    - A persistent tactic. Causes the character to attempt to reach the
         edge of the combat area, and exit the scene. In the right-hand party
         status pane, it is symbolized by a feather icon.
Spirit - A one-time tactic. Causes the character to use the selected Spirit
         technique. Not all characters can use Spirit techniques.
Shaman - A one-time tactic. Causes the character to use the selected Shaman
         spell. Not all characters can use Shaman spells.
Chant  - A one-time tactic. Causes the character to use the selected Chant
         ability. Not all characters can use Chant abilities.
Item   - A one-time tactic. Causes the character to use the selected item.
         A character must have an item to use in his or her inventory to be
         able to use this command.

(4) Item Descriptions
---------------------

*Somas*

Red Soma         - Restores some HP.
Blue Soma        - Restores some MP.
Yellow Soma      - Cures Poison.
Green Soma       - Cures Numb.
Purple Soma      - Cures Lure.
Pale Soma        - Restores both HP and MP.
Brown Soma       - Cures Blindness.
White Soma       - Cures Death, Refills HP & MP.

Baramon Bracelet - Refills HP/MP
Kabbalah Scroll  - Same as Shaman spell, "Silence"
Gold Beetle      - Halves enemy speed
Zio Coin         - Escape from a dungeon
Echo Bar         - Same as Shaman spell, "Illusion"
Wine             - Same as Shaman spell, "Hypnotize"
Calm Flute       - Same as Shaman spell, "Silence"
Brahman Eye      - Won't fall into pits
Crystal Ball     - Raises rate of HP recovery
Mahni Flame      - Lifts curses
Cobra Fang       - Same as Shaman spell, "Poison Fang"
Tornado Seed     - Same as Shaman spell, "Tornado"
Trick Vision     - Same as Shaman spell, "Black Mist"
Invisible Chain  - Same as Shaman spell, "Tied"
Wind Seal        - Escape from a battle

(5) Spiritual Techniques
------------------------
While the Shaman spells all have fairly self-explanatory names, I felt that
it was necessary to include a description of the Inishe Spirit techniques,
as well as a translation of their names. Such translations are often not
appropriate, as they'd neither fit in the rom nor on-screen, but are
interesting nonetheless.

Gedatsu   - "Deliverance"
  Escapes from a battle.

Goriki    - "Strength of Eternity" 
  Protects the target from damage for a given time.

Yoriki    - "Strength of All"
  Casts Goriki on the entire party.

Enkai     - "Cast Out the World"
  Reduces the amount of damage taken.

Ashura    - "Asura"
  Grants the strength of a demon to the target.

Senri     - "Stride of 1,000 Leagues"
  Increases the target's agility.

Shomei    - "Revelation"
  Clears status effects.

Rinnehu   -  "Metempsychosis"
  Revives a dead ally.

Jokahu    - "Purification"
  Protects against status effects.

Shuntenhu - "Passing of the Seasons"
  Advances the season by one. May confuse wildlife.

Seikanhu - "Safe Haven"
  Escape a dungeon.
  
Kanraihu - "The Last Tree"
  Return to the Rain Tree at which you last saved.

(6) Tips for Beginners
----------------------
-Niso Forest's Inn is free. Make use of it!
-You start with 500 coins. Be sure to spend it on equipment for your
 characters before leaving Niso Forest!
-Characters lose most of their equipment if they're removed from the party,
 so have them trade to other members anything you want them to keep.
-Traders will set up shop in some towns. They're seasonal, and each time
 they come they'll train your stats (for a fee.)
