This text file is not intended to be a full explanation of the rules of Japanese
mahjong; I advise you to go to Wikipedia for that.  This is a list of notable
facts about 4 Player Strike Mahjong, including differences between it and the
standard game.

- In 4 Player Strike Mahjong, every game is made up of two rounds (East and
  South) of at least four hands each.  The game does not end when someone loses
  all of his points (he just goes into the negative), and the game does not
  "enter West" if everyone has less than 30000 points.

- As seen on the title screen, 4 Player Strike Mahjong allows you to choose
  between two slightly different variants of the game.  These variants are
  concerned with whether or not you get credit for completing a hand that
  contains no terminals or honors (also known as a tanyaochuu hand, or in the
  hack as a MIDDLES ONLY hand) when your hand is open.  As an open tanyaochuu
  hand is also known as a kuitan hand, the variants are known as "kuitan nashi"
  ("KUITAN INVALID") and "kuitan ari" ("KUITAN VALID").
  
- In both variants, 4 Player Strike Mahjong uses "pinfu-tsumo ari" rules, which
  means that if you get a NO-POINT HAND (a hand worth no extra fu points) on a
  TSUMO, you get credit for both the NO-POINT HAND yaku and the TSUMO yaku for a
  total of two han.
  
- 4 Player Strike Mahjong does not require two sets of two identical sequences
  (ex. a pair of ones, a pair of twos, and a pair of threes in both the dot suit
  and the bamboo suit, referred to in the hack as "2X TWIN CHIIS") to be exactly
  the same except for the suits. That is to say, you will get credit for 2X TWIN
  CHIIS if you have, for example, a pair of ones, a pair of twos, and a pair of
  threes in one suit, and a pair of sevens, a pair of eights, and a pair of
  nines in the other.

- 4 Player Strike Mahjong designates two yaku in particular as being worth "BIG
  YAKUMAN," or 1.5 times yakuman.  These yaku are the NINE GATES yaku (up from 
  1 yakuman) and the BIG 4 WINDS yaku (down from 2 yakuman).  However, this
  half-yakuman advantage goes away if you have multiple yakuman (ex. if your
  NINE GATES hand had NINE WAITS, you get 2 yakuman instead of 2.5).
  
- The yaku for when there are only terminal and honor tiles in the hand (known
  in the hack as NO MIDDLE TILES) is worth three han in 4 Player Strike Mahjong
  instead of two.
  
- 4 Player Strike Mahjong does not recognize the Big Seven Stars yaku.  Big
  Seven Stars is recognized as a standard HONORS ONLY yaku worth one yakuman
  instead of two.

- The yaku that 4 Player Strike Mahjong recognizes that are not part of standard
  Japanese mahjong are as follows: the three chained triplets yaku ("3 CHAINED
  PONS," where you have three pons that follow a sequence), the CHARIOT yaku
  (where the hand consists entirely of pairs of each of the middle tiles of the
  dot suit), and the thirteen unconnected tiles yaku ("THIRTEEN UNLINKED," where
  the hand would normally be completely worthless, containing only one pair).
  In addition, the game recognizes an unofficial yaku not listed on Wikipedia:
  the three identical sequences yaku ("TRIPLET CHIIS"), which is like 3 CHAINED
  PONS except that at least one of the chiis has to be open and you only get one
  han instead of two.  Furthermore, THIRTEEN UNLINKED is worth only mangan while
  according to Wikipedia it is normally worth yakuman.