*Thanks to snark for explaining all the Buddhist stuff. It's an interesting read for those who enjoy this kind of stuff.

#1- The big white Siddham character near or around the title screen

This is the siddham script. It is a "seed syllable" for the deity Acala Vidya-Rajah, also known as Fudo Miyo. It makes the sound "ham" sounds like "hom". The seed syllable is the next to the last sound in his mantra, which I have discussed here before the big site crash. It is a reference note or sound for a monk to meditate upon, and serves as an identification of the fiery deity. 

#2- The two big black Siddham Characters on the title screen

The first script is "ham" the second is "mam." Sometimes these two letters are conjoined. The hammam is the elongated form of the seed syllable. these two together are the last two syllables of the bija mantra. It is a part of the last verse sphotoya hum trat ham mam which corresponds to  "and he will destroy all obstacles." 

The bija seed (like in Sanskrit )is a sound that will resonate with the corresponding chakra (energy center) which I think may be the throat
in this case. 

#3- The Scrolling intro/outro

This is Acala Vidya-Rajahs /Fudo Miyo's mantra.  It is from the Mahavairocana Sutra. Mahavairocana is the Sun buddha, Dainichi Nyorai. 
The scripture is from tantric Shingon Buddhism.

It says vertically:

"Nama samamta vajranam camda maharosana sphotaya hum trat ham mam."

"Praise to the universal /(great) fiery thunderbolt/ (diamond) with great wrath he will violently destroy all obstacles"

Fudo Miyo is one of the few wrathful Buddhist deities. His name as Acala means non-moveable, Vidya Rajah means a King or Lord of arcane occult widsom. 

Monks meditate upon this when they wish to remove obstacles in their path. 

#4- Vertical kanji on a temple

‹¥‰¤Ž› roughly translates to Temple of the Evil King

#5- Purple Buddhist characters in special areas

The script on the bottom is letter "u"(which should have a bar on top making the short sound.) This stands for sambhogak?ya, which is known as the void or the beginning of the cosmos. Its the one that looks like the number three. 

The script on the top is letter "i"(which should have a bar on top making the short sound.) This stands for maya, which is known as illusions. Its the one that looks like two loops with a comma underneath.

So basically darkness and illusion which the hero is fighting against. If there is another connotation, that is entirely possible, but these are the most likely.


