Rudra no Hihou/Rudra's Secret Treasure Manual Translation
[Gid Zhi's notes will be in brackets.]
["Treasure of the Rudras"]

Page 3

CONTENTS

The World of Rudra's Secret Treasure  -  4
Character Introduction  -  6
How to Start the Game  -  8
Controller Operations  -  10
Common Actions  -  12
Travel, Transportation, Gathering Information  -  12
About Treasure Chests  -  14
Other Devices in the Fields  -  15
Shop Guide  -  16
About the Menu Screen  -  18
Menu Commands  -  19
Word Essences and Elements  -  23 ["Mantras" and Elements]
Drawing Up Word Essences  -  24 ["Mantras"]
Basic Word Essence List  -  25 ["Mantras"]
About Elements  -  26
Elements in Word Essences, Weapons, Armor  -  27 ["Mantras"]
Battle  -  28
Battle Commands  -  29
Changing Battle Order, Status Abnormalities  -  31
Weapon, Armor, Accessory List  -  32
A Mini-Encyclopedia of Rudra's Secret Treasure  -  38


Page 4


THE WORLD OF RUDRA'S SECRET TREASURE

Long ago...
In the days when the earth still dwelled in chaos...
It is told that heaven ordered earth's chaos, 
that heaven bestowed its great power to earth, 
and that heaven brought prosperity to earth. 
Life on earth was born.

Those who were the keepers of arcane lore, 
the Danan mystics.
Those who held the power to wander
the ocean, the water denizens.
Those of high hopes and lofty spirits,
the reptilians.
Those whose bodies withstood 
all environments, the giants.  
However...
Heaven's favor
was not with them.
As time flowed on, 
they vanished
from the earth.
And...
Heaven once again 
gave birth to life on earth  - 
And, it is told, brought a long time of prosperity 
to the earth...


Page 5

A Simultaneously-Advancing, Mutually-Influencing, Dramatic RPG!

At the end of every 4,000 year period, when the prosperous
race is destroyed, a new race is born. Staged against this
world's cycle of birth and ruin, a group of heroes will
fight to save the human race from downfall.

This story will divide into three simultaneous scenarios.
They will intertwine and influence each other in their
advancement to dramatically develop for your enjoyment.  

Picture Captions:
In each scenario, the events transpiring...
...will be experienced from different viewpoints according
to the different scenario.

Create Your Own Magic: The Word Essence System [Mantra system]

This game's biggest feature is the player's ability to
create their own magic, "word essence".  As every word
hides some magic power, the player proceeds on the
adventure with word essences of their own design.  If you
can discover some fundamental principles, you can greatly
increase your magic power.  Begin creating your own word
essences!

Picture Captions:
If you learn word essences right from the start...
...you'll soon be creating them completely on your own. 


Pages 6-7


CHARACTER INTRODUCTION

The three heroes who will play the greatest parts in the
three scenarios, their parties, and a mysterious fourth
hero  -  let's meet them all.

Sion
A brave but slightly reckless soldier in the service of
the King of Kreunew.  He is about to take "The Challenge ["Tower of the Braves"]
of the Warrior's", the trial to become the head of the   [May later be changed]
knights of Kreunew. 
[Note: most English-language webpages spell
the knight's name as "Cion" (culled from
Square.net/RPGamer, which in turn culled it
from a Squaresoft webpage).  "Cion" is incorrect;
the Rudra manual, OSV, and piano book all spell
his name as "Sion" in roman letters.]  

Foxy
The daughter of the wealthy Eremias, who live on ["Eremia"]
the eastern continent over the sea from Kreunew.

Ture
One of the last surviving giants.  He was freed
from captivity by Sion.

Ramyleth 
King of the legendary Danan mystics.  He will
help his friend Ture on Sion's journey.

Dune 
With his partner, he is known the world over as
a notorious thief.  He himself insists on calling
himself a treasure hunter.  He's quite skilled,
but he's a bit of a con artist.

Surlent
A master of word essence who is always pursuing the
truth.  He is a pupil of the wise man Solon, but,
right now, he is assisting Professor Myunhi with [Professor "Muench"]
his studies.

Legin
Son of Professor Castagia, he works at an item shop.
He also works as an assistant to professor Myunhi.

Lolo
A child carried off by the mysterious Order of ["Rudra Cult"]
Rudra.  Good with word essences.

Sork
A friend of Surlent's, skilled with the sword.
A pupil of the wise man Solon.

Riza
This always-cheerful, spirited girl's heart calls
out to the wind, the earth, the sea, and all
living things.  She was born with a "Jade" stone
in her forehead.  She's the granddaughter of the
priest Zeku of the town of Karn.

Garlyle
Leader of the rebel army of Babel, the only town
left on earth with clean air.  Good with a gun.

Pipin
Prince of the reptilians.  He was rescued by Riza
when he was attacked by monsters.  

Marina
Priestess of the water denizens.  She is searching
for the clean waters created by the guardian
spirit of the water denizens.  


Pages 8-9


HOW TO START THE GAME

Well, it's the beginning of the adventure.
It can be started from any one of the three
scenarios, or it is also possible to advance
the three simultaneously.

Set the cassette correctly in the Super
Famicom unit and turn on the power.  At the
opening screen, push the A or Start button,
and the name registry screen will appear.

Scenario Selection

When name registry is finished, the scenario
select screen will appear.  You can choose
any one of the three scenarios, or also
advance them a little at a time.

Name Registry

Select "New Game", and you'll be take to a
screen where you'll enter names for the
four heroes.  You can move the cursor with
the directional button, enter characters
with the A button, and delete characters
with the B button.  Choose "Confirm" to
confirm your name choice, or "Go Back"
to go one screen back.

Saving the Game

You can save your game through the menu
screen anywhere on the world map.  It's
also possible to save at inns and at
certain other places.

Attention!

In this game, one save will save your position
in all three scenarios at once.  Erase the save
data, and the data for all three scenarios will
disappear.  Please pay attention to the fact
that if you save in even just one of the
scenarios, you will not be able to start over
in any of the others.

Continue 

At the file screen, select the data with which
you wish to continue play and press the A
button.  The game will start from the last
saved point.
* Select "New Game", and you'll start from
the very beginning.

Game Over 

When the hero's entire party becomes unable
to fight, the game is over.  When the game
is over, the game returns to the file screen.


Pages 10-11


CONTROLLER OPERATIONS

Here is an explanation of the basic
use of the controller.  

Control Pad

Normally: Moves the character.
On the Save File screen, in battle, and
in the menu screen: Moves the cursor.
When choosing items or word essences,
toggles the page left and right.

Start Button

Name Registry: Confirms the name.
In battle: Returns battle order to the
default formation.    
Menu screen: In creating word essences,
confirms a word essence.

*The Select button is not used.

L Button

Normally: Used to talk with others and
to open chests and other items.
In battle: Confirms battle commands,
word essences, and spell targets.
Menu screen: Switches between the equip
and status screens.  In creating word
essences, moves the cursor to the left.

R Button

Menu Screen: Switches between the equip
and status screens.  In creating word
essences, moves the cursor to the right. 

X Button

Normally: Opens the menu screen.
In battle: Used to go back to the previous
battle mode.
Menu screen: Cancels the creation of a
word essence.

A Button

Normally: Makes conversation, opens
treasure chests, advances the message
screen.
In battle: Confirms battle commands,
word essences, and spell targets.
Menu Screen: Confirms choices.  In
creating word essences, confirms a
character.

Y Button

In battle: Moves a character from the
front row to the back and vice versa.  
Menu Screen: Moves a character from the
front row to the back and vice versa.
In creating word essences, erases the
current character.

B Button 

Normally: When held down with the control
pad, makes the character dash.
In battle and the menu screen: Cancels a
decision.  In Name Registry and creating
word essences, moves the cursor back one
space. 


Pages 12-15


COMMON ACTIONS

All of these general commands will apply
anywhere, except for special, automatic
modes or in the middle of battle.  Here,
we'll explain the basics.

Travel

The control pad will let your character
move in town and dungeon screens and on
the overworld map screen.  Pressing the
control pad while pressing the B button
will make him or her dash.  When your
character touches a town or dungeon on
the map, they will enter that field.

Picture Captions:
A field where one can search for and collect information.
The map screen.  Travel to caves, ruins, and other destinations.

About Transportation

Several vehicles will appear in this story,
but, except in certain cases, the player
cannot use those vehicles freely.  When you
board these vehicles, you will automatically
be taken to a prescribed destination.

The Ark
A ship that sails the skies, said to have
been created by the Danan mystics long ago.

Heg
The water denizens' guardian spirit.
You can travel the seas inside his body.

Fasci ["Faxi"]
A flying train you will board in the
course of the adventure.  The location
of its conductor is a mystery.
 
Gathering Information

When you stand facing a person and press
the A button, that person will make
conversation.  Pressing the A button
repeatedly will advance the message.

Reading Signs

You can read signs, labels, and so forth if
you stand in front of them and press the A
button.  They might hold valuable information.

Reading Books

Books on bookshelves, books in shelves, and
the like can all be read.  Stand in front of
them and press the A button.

About Treasure Chests

There are treasure chests all about the fields
containing items, money, and other things.
If you press the A button in front of a
treasure chest, you can obtain its contents.

Kinds of Treasure Chests
Besides common chests that hold items and
money, there are also word essence and Jade
chests.  Since these items could be of great
help to you on the adventure, it'd be good
to remember to open them.  

Word Essence Chests
They're the same yellow as common chests.
They contain hints about word essences.
Fill in the question marks with characters.

Jade Chests
Although the heroes have some Jades with
them, certain Jades can only be found in
chests.  There are three kinds of these
treasure chests  -  red, blue, and green.

Other Devices in the Fields

Saves
There are save points in the fields.  If you
press the A button in front of the green-colored
stone statues like the one in the photograph
on the right, you can save.

Recoveries
There are recovery points in the fields.
When you drink from the yellow-colored
pots like the one in the photo at right,
you'll fully recover HP and MP.

Warps
As you progress in the adventure, warp points
like the one in the photograph will appear.
When you stand in the center, you'll warp
someplace.

Switches
In caves, buildings, etc., there are switches
that operate all sorts of devices.  Standing
in front and pressing the A button will flip
the switch.


pages 16-17


SHOP GUIDE

At shops, you can buy and sell many
different kinds of items and gather
information.  Make good use of them.

At the shops, stand in front of the
shopkeepers and address them using
the A button.  Use the control pad to
move the cursor and the A button to
make a choice.

Inn

You can restore your HP and MP here.
You can also save.  No matter how often
you stop, the number of the day that
the story is on won't advance, so relax.
[Editorial explanation: Rudra's Secret
Treasure is divided, like a book is into
chapters, into "days" on which certain
events happen.  The game takes place over
sixteen days.  What the manual is saying
is that, if you decide to "sleep" at the
Inn sixteen times in a row on the game's
"first day", the game won't advance to
the seventeenth day/end of the world/game
over; it'll still be the first day in the
game's time frame, no matter how many
times you "stay the night" at the Inn.]

Tool Shop

You can buy herbs, tonics, and other items
here.  You can also sell the tools you have
on hand.  If there aren't any shops, there
might be a peddler around.

Arms Shop

This place sells weapons and armor.  Both
the attack power and defense power of
weapons and armor are important, but since
all your attributes are affected by
equipment, it is necessary to take caution.

Bar 

You can get sake to drink here.  It
doesn't cost any money.  You might
catch a hint if you try a drink.

Mistress of Word Essence Conduction ["Mantra Mistress"]
 
She will teach you word essences for
free.  Since the word essences she
teaches will change, it'd be good to
make sure to talk to her whenever you
find her.

Port

Boats take off here.  The boats are
free, but you won't be able to board
if the ship isn't ready.  Since many
people arrive at and depart from
this place, you might be able to get
some information.

Map

In the port's lobby, there'll be a map
of the region.  You can view it by
standing in front of it and pressing
the A button.  The shape of the land
can change from time to time.


Pages 18-22


ABOUT THE MENU SCREEN

The menu screen, opened with the X
button, is the one thing you'll make
the most use out of on the quest. 
Let's master how to use it.

Looking at the Menu Screen

Menu Commands
This is a rundown of the command that
you can use.  Point the cursor to the
chosen command and press the A button.

Character Data
The present and maximum levels of HP
and MP and the levels of the party's
members are shown.

Cash on Hand
How much money the party has.

Number of Days Passed
Shows how many days have passed since
the start of the adventure.

*Changing Battle Order
The battle order of the characters can be
changed through the menu screen.  Move the
cursor to the character's slot, and then
press the A or Y button and switch he or
she around.  For a detailed explanation,
please refer to page 28.

Menu Command Guide

Item - Look at/Use the Items on Hand
Move the cursor to the item you want to
use and press the A button twice, and that
item will be selected.  Next, choose the
character on whom you wish to use the item,
and confirm with the A button.

Word Essence - Look at/Chant Learned Word Essences ["Manta"]
Choose whomever will recite the word essence
with the A button and, when the screen at
right comes up, select the word essence
you want to use and on whom it will be cast.
The word essences you can use are written
in white.

Draw Up - Create and Arrange Word Essences ["Enscribe"]
To arrange your menu, press the A button
once on the chosen word essence, move the
cursor to the space where you want it to
be moved, and press the A button twice.
Please refer to page 24 for more information
on drawing up word essences.  
(Follow the same procedure to arrange your items.)

Equip - Look at/Equip Equipment
When you choose whomever's equipment you wish
to see with the A button, the screen at right
will appear.  You can switch between
characters with the L/R buttons.  To equip an
item, select the slot to which to equip the
item from the screen at lower-right, then
confirm your choice of equipment with the
A button.  The readout on the screen's status
columns will display the effects of the equip.
Yellow lettering indicates an increase in
power; gray, a decrease in power.

Look at Belongings - Look at All Possessions ["Inventory"]
Displays all your belongings.  If it's
equipment that a character can use, that
character will laugh; if it's equipped,
an "E" will appear next to it.

Status - Look at Status
Select whomever's status you wish to look at
with the A button, and the screen at right
will appear.  The character shown can be
changed with the L/R buttons.

Heading - Contents

HP - Shows HP's current value/maximum value.  
MP - Shows MP's current value/maximum value.
Occupation - Shows character's occupation.
To Next Level - The number of experience
points needed for the next level-up.
Attack Power - Stands for the attack power
of the sword or such alone.
Physical Defense Power - Character's defense
against attacks.
Magic Defense Power - Defense against magic.
Strength - Effect of the attack power of
character's sword or such.
Skill - The effect of the hit rate of ["Agility"]
character's attacks.
Speed - Determines attack order in battle.
Wisdom - Determines the strength of magical ["Spirit"]
attacks and missile attacks.
Weapon Power - Indicates the power of weapons
equipped.
Armor Power - Indicates the power of armor
equipped.

Config - Look at/Select Settings
You can select options for the music during
the game, the cursor memory, and so many
other things.  Use the Control Pad to move
the cursor and the A button to make a decision;
return to the menu screen using the B button.  
Sound - You can choose stereo or monaural for
the game music.  Choose according to your
television settings.
Key Settings - You can choose the cursor
settings in battle.  The cursor can
"remember" to return to "Attack" or to the
same position as the previous turn.
Order - Choose your allies' battle order.
Until you change it manually, it will be
set on the default order.

Save - Record Game Data
If the letters appear written in
white, you can save.  Choose the
file and save with the A button.

About Leveling Up
When you defeat enemies in battle,
you'll gain experience points and
money.  When your experience points
reach a certain level, you'll level
up.  When you level up, several status
attributes like HP, MP, and so on will
increase.  Which attributes will
increase, and by how much, will differ
from character to character.
  

Pages 23-25


WORD ESSENCES AND ELEMENTS

The Word Essence System is very important, and,
while your word essences themselves are gravely
important, knowing which ones to select is vital
in an emergency. 

What is "Word Essence"? [What is a "Mantra"?]

Word essence is the use of the magic power 
idden in words to produce various effects like
defeating monsters or healing wounds.

Kinds of Word Essences

Word essences are words, consisting of no more
than six characters arranged in any way, that
hold power.  The properties, power, range, and
MP consumption of the word essences created by
the player are determined by secret rules.
Though word essences may be similar, their
power or range might be different, even though
their pronunciations may be quite close.

Drawing Up Word Essences

When "Draw Up" is selected at the menu ["Enscribe"]
screen, the Word Essence list will open
up at right.  Move the cursor to a blank
space and press the A button twice.  Select
each character with the cursor and decide
with the A button.  Finally, press the A
button at "Confirm" to finish.  If you
press the A button twice in the column of
word essences that you already have, that
new word essence will be added in.

An Example of Effective "Drawing-Up"

When word essences become "basic", they'll
become more effective.  Let's work together
to create a combination word essence.  
basic word essence - Igu  ["IG"]
+ word essence - Na
= combination word essence - Iguna is a ["IGNA"]
simple word essence of a basic fire
elemental attack.

Basic Word Essence List

Here before you are some basic word
essences.  Combining these word
essences to increase their effectiveness
is advisable, but trying to create
entirely new word essences would be even better.

Word Essence  -  Element  -  Scope  -  MP  -  Effect

Igu*  -  Fire  -  S  -  1  -  Fire elemental damage ["IG"]
Iguna  -  Fire  -  M  -  2  -  Fire elemental damage ["IGNA"]
Aku*  -  Water  -  S  -  1  -  Water elemental damage ["AQU"]
Kontoaku  -  Water  -  S  -  2  -  Water elemental damage ["CONTAQU"]
Teo*  -  Wind  -  S  -  1  -  Wind elemental damage ["TEO"]
Tou*  -  Thunder  -  S  -  1  -  Thunder elemental damage ["TOU"]
Touna  -  Thunder  -  M  -  2  -  Thunder elemental damage ["TOUNA"]
Tourusu  -  Thunder  -  M  -  2  -  Thunder elemental damage ["TOULUS"]
Soa*  -  Yang  -  S  -  1  -  Yang elemental damage ["SOA"]
Sere*  -  Yin  -  S  -  1  -  Yin elemental damage ["SERE"]
Nihi*  -  Mu  -  S  -  1  -  Void elemental damage ["NIHI"]
Pura*  -  Chi  -  M  -  7  -  Earth damage ["PRA"]
Refu*  -  Recovery  -  S  -  2  -  Recovers HP ["LEF"]
Refuna  -  Recovery  -  M  -  4  -  Recovers HP ["LEFNA"]
Arefu  -  Recovery  -  S  -  3  -  Recovers HP ["ALEF"]
Animu  -  Revival  -  S  -  5  -  Recovers from swoon state ["ANIM"]

*  -  These are considered the basic word essences for their elements.


Pages 26-27


ELEMENTS

If you rush ahead and attack without paying
attention to your weapon, armor, and word
essence elements, making your way in the
quest could get quite difficult.

Controlling the Elements in the World of Rudra

In this game's world, weapons, armor,
accessories, word essences, monsters, and
all sorts of things hold the power of the
elements.  Making the most of the elements
in your attacks can turn battles in your
favor.

Learn the Six Elements

There are six elemental categories; the chart
to the right shows their opposing relationships.
Your weapons, armor, and accessories are aligned
with these elements' power.  Since the elements
can thus affect your attack and defense power,
you need to pay attention.  Moreover, there are
also word essences dealing with the additional
elements of Void and Earth.

Fire <---> Water
Thunder <---> Wind
Yang <---> Yin   ["Light"<--->"Dark"]
-------
Void   Earth

Word Essence Elements

When attacking enemies with word essences,
it's quite effective if the word essence's
element is the opposite of that of the
monster.  For a fire-based enemy, use a
water elemental word essence.

Weapon Elements

When attacking an enemy with weapons, as with
word essences, using a weapon of the opposite
element as the enemy will register big damage
to the enemy.

Armor Elements

Armor takes the opposite strategy of
word essences and weapons; if the
attacks dealt by the enemy aren't of
the same element as your armor, your
armor won't be very effective.  Watch
out.

Equipping Armor of Opposing Elements...

Since you can equip only one weapon,
your fighter's armaments, in that respect,
cannot "contradict" itself, so to speak -
but, since you can equip up to four kinds of
armor, the elements of a character's
equipment can wind up opposing each other.
In that case, these elements will cancel
each other out, so watch out!  If the
armors' elements aren't direct opposites,
this won't be a problem, and they can
co-exist.  Coordinating your armor is
important.


Pages 28-31


BATTLE

When you move around fields like the map
screen, you'll run into enemies and start
a battle.  Take command of your word
essences and attack!

Looking at the Battle Screen

Battle Screen
You can input commands for the characters
marked with a triangle.

Battle Order
Indicates battle order.  The ally with his
or her mark at the far left end goes first.

Monster Name
Indicates the enemy monster's name.

Commands
The battle commands.  Ones in gray cannot
be selected.

HP Gauge
Displays current and maximum HP of your
characters, in order from top to bottom.

About Your Characters' Positions

On any given battle screen, you can change
the position of the character marked with
the triangle with the Y button.  If a
characters is in the front lines, he
or she will hit harder but will be an
easier target for enemy hits.  The opposite
is true in the back row,

Battle Commands 

Choose what action to take against your
enemy.  Move the cursor with the control
pad, confirm with the A button, and cancel
and move one window back with the B button.

Fight - Attack with Equipped Weapons
Launch a direct attack on the enemy
with the weapons you have equipped.
Select the enemy to attack with the
control pad and confirm with the A
button.  You can attack enemies in
the front or back lines.

Word Essence - Use a Word Essence
Choosing "Word Essence" will display
your word essence list.  The number to
the side of the name of the word essence
is the amount of MP it consumes when cast.
Word essences written in gray are
unselectable.  On the right side of the list,
your current and maximum MP and the effects
of the word essence that the cursor is pointing
to are shown.  Move the cursor with the control
pad and confirm your choice with the A button.
*If the word essence's range is a single target,
choose your target.

Item - Use Items on Hand
Use the items you have.  When the list of items
pops up, first choose the item you want to use,
then choose who to use that item on.

Defend - Defend
With "Defend", you can protect any ally except
yourself.  When warrior-type characters (Sion,
Sork, Garlyle) defend themselves, the power of
their next turn's attack will go up.

Escape - Start to Run Away
If you press the control pad either left or
right, the "Escape" command will appear.
When you select it, you'll start to run
away.  You might be able to escape.

Changing the Battle Order

When you press the X button, you can change
the battle order.  Move the marker left or
right with the control pad.

Status Abnormalities

You can contract status abnormalities
in battle through enemy or ally attacks.
Except for "pollution", all of them will
clear up automatically at the end of
battle.  They can also, however, be
cured through use of a panacea.

[Condition] Name  -  Element
Symptoms & How to Deal with Them

Burn  -  Fire
Character turns red, suffers damage
every turn.  Cured by a water
elemental attack.

Freeze  -  Water
Character turns blue, becomes unable
to move.  Cured by a fire elemental
attack.

Shock  -  Thunder
Character turns gold, will not accept
commands, attacks both enemies and
allies.  Cured by a wind elemental
attack.

Float  -  Wind
Character turns blue-green, floats.
Will not take damage from earth
attacks  -  an advantageous ailment.
Cured by a thunder elemental attack.

Pollution  -  Yin ["Dark"]
Character turns black, can't use word
essences, status bar-meter is cut in
half.  Cured by an antidote.

Automatic Recovery  -  Yang ["Light"]
Character's HP slowly regenerates  -
an advantageous status ailment.  A yin ["Dark"]
elemental attack will bring things
back to normal.

Berserk  -  Mu ["Void"]
Character becomes completely uncontrollable.
Attacks only enemies.  Clears up when the
battle ends, except in the case of swoon.


Pages 32-35


WEAPON, ARMOR, & ACCESSORY LIST

Besides buying them at the armory, weapons,
armor, and accessories can also be obtained
through getting them in chests or by enemies
dropping them.

Thunderbolt Sword [Raisentou] ["Storm"]
A strange sword famed for its power to dispel
the curses of the demons that haunt the castle
ruins on the polluted continents.  Warriors
can equip it.  Must be held with two hands.
Holds thunder elemental power.

Aspirade
A large two-handed sword with a jewel-encrusted
handle and a smooth steel edge.  Since it's
heavy, only the most stalwart Kreunew soldiers
use it.  Warriors can equip it.

Rune Knife
A silver-plated metal knife.  The shape of the
swath it cuts is said to look just like the
glimmering crescent moon.

Prince Nail
An heirloom with the power of thunder passed
down from generation to generation of reptilian
princes.  Fits on two hands.  It slays ferocious
beasts with its blows, but it performs especially
effectively against humanoid enemies.

Moon Rifle
A beginner's two-handed rifle with a moon crest
carved in the center.

Regulus
A two-handed bow with a most flexible bowstring
with strikes enemies quick and true.  The attack
power of bows is not reduced in the back row.

Fire Bow
A fire-elemental two-handed bowgun crafted
according to the arts of an ancient
civilization.  Attacks all enemies.

Plus Armor
Armor for the soldiers Kreunew crafted
according to the methods handed down within
the Kreunew royal family.

Chain Mail
Light armor consisting of light metal epaulets and a body of interwoven chains.

Babel Coat
A coat denoting the leader of the
Babel Rebellion.

Frey Mantle
The garb of a Word Essence master.
Increases magic defense.

Open Helm
The face of the god of battle is carved
into the head and monster horns protrude
from the sides of this warrior's helmet.

Logical Cap
A tight hat dyed blue with matori weeds
that contains wind elemental power.

Pure Ring
A ring of yang orientation; the bright
light from its leaf-like green stone
brings relief.

Talisman Charm
A charm with a sculpted dragon talisman.
Aligned with the yin element; increases
magic defense when equipped.


Pages 36-37


ITEM LIST

Some items cannot be bought from tool shops
or peddlers; they are found only in treasure
chests.  There are many different kinds of
items.  You can carry nine of each type of
item.  When you go into a cave, dungeon,
or such, you should probably take plenty
of items with you.

Herb ["Medical Herb"]
A herb that recovers 50 HP.  20 lagu. ["Ragu"]

Panacea
Medicine that treats status abnormalities.  300 lagu.

Restorative ["Alarum"]
Medicine that restores swooned characters.  2,000 lagu.

Spirit
Sacred wine that imparts "gung-ho" status.

Purifier
Medicine that treats pollution.  1,000 lagu.

Sweet Water ["Tasty Water"]
Sacred water that recovers 30 MP.  30 lagu.

Reim Herb ["Rem Herb"]
Herb that recovers 100 HP.  100 lagu.

Nuado Herb ["Nuad Heb"]
Herb that recovers 200 HP.

Horn Water
Sacred water that recovers 100 MP.

Float Stone
Magic stone that delivers you from battles and caves.  1400 lagu.

Red Pouch
Pouch stuffed with one basic word essence.  30 lagu.

Green Pouch
Pouch stuffed with one healing word essence.  60 lagu.

Amurita
Herb that completely recovers HP and MP.

Life Leaf
Herb that increases your maximum HP by 20.

Magic Leaf
Herb that increases your maximum MP by 10.


Page 38


A MINI-ENCYCLOPEDIA OF RUDRA'S SECRET TREASURE

A world in which, in the space of about 20,000
years, birth and downfall have come and gone.
The important concepts expressed by the following
keywords are explained here.

Rudra
The entity that, at the end of a race's given
4,000 years, brings about the ruin of the world.
At the same time, it causes a new race to be born,
of which Rudra is its founder.

Lago Stones
Rudra, once it completed its missions, created
these fossils, then returned to sleep.  It is
said that each of the five Lago Stones represents
a race of Rudra, but not everything about them
has been discovered.

Jades
The four stones necessary for Rudra to assume
its perfect form.  Each is said to have its
own hidden powers.

Danan Mystics
The first-born race.  Because they lived closest
to the gods, they had amazingly long life spans.
Word essences were also developed by the Danan
mystics.

Water Denizens ["Mermaids"]
The race that emerged after the Danan mystics were
destroyed.  They devoted themselves to the power
in the advancement of word essences.

Reptilians ["Reptiles"]
The race that appeared after the destruction of the
water denizens.  Though they were a battle-loving
tribe, they respected the warriors' code and didn't
like war for its own sake.  The development of word
essences declined under them.

Giants
Appearing after the reptilians, this strong-bodied
race further balanced civilization.  They developed
many weapons and armors.

Human Race
They appeared after the giants were destroyed.
In their first 2,000 years, they brought
civilization to its peak, but they also wreaked
horrible damage on the environment.  In the next
2,000 years, their god-like power increased, but...


Page 39


RUDRA CHRONOLOGY

Time  -  Event

More than 20,000 years ago  -  The "Four Great ["Four Greats"]
Heroes" fought the "Being from the Skies" and
somehow drove it back.  At that time, heaven
and earth were separated.

20,000 years ago  -  The first Rudra is born,
the Danan mystics are created, and Rudra itself
is fossilized.  The Danans invent word essences.

16,000 years ago  -  The next Rudra is born, the
Danan mystics are destroyed, and the water denizens
are created.  The water denizens further develop
word essences.

12,000 years ago  -  Rudra is born once again, and,
after the water denizens are destroyed, the
reptilians are born.  Word essences are completely
forgotten.

8,000 years ago  -  The birth of the fourth Rudra.
The reptilians are destroyed, and the giants are
given birth.  Civilization advances, and many kinds
of weapons and armors are developed.

4,000 years ago (first year of new calendar) - The
fifth Rudra is born, the giants are destroyed, and
the human race is created.  Civilization sees further
advancement.

2,000th year of new calendar  -  At about this time,
the pollution of the air, sea, and sky begins.

3,980th year of new calendar  -  Professor Myunhi ["Muench"]
iscovers an 8,000-year-old fossil.  He names it
the "Lago stone".

3,999th year of new calendar (sixteen days before
year 4,000)  -  The struggle of four people guided
by destiny begins.


Disclaimer: Rudra no Hihou/Rudra's Secret Treasure is the property of Squaresoft.  This manual was translated by Rebecca Capowski (RACapowski@worldnet.att.net); please do not post any part of it anywhere else without her permission.
[Gid Zhi's last note - I got her permission. Thanks, Rebecca!]
